# Fog-Computing-And-Its-Applications<br>
The advancement of the Internet of Things has revolutionized the world we live in today. With this expansion, there comes a need for methods that can handle the vast amount of data being generated by the IoT. Fog computing is one such paradigm. It mitigates high-latency and provides better bandwidth utilization, thereby increasing agility and productivity of a network. To demonstrate the superiority of fog-computing as compared to cloud-based infrastructures, an accident detection application was developed to compare the difference in the response time of fog and cloud. A smartphone has been used to resemble an IoT sensor array on-board a vehicle, that is used to monitor the vehicle in real-time. This sensor array is synonymous with any IoT sensor deployed in the industry, in the sense that it generates real-time data of some important parameter. This real-time data is sent to the fog node via Wi-Fi. The fog node continuously monitors the vehicle’s state by analyzing this stream of sensor data. On detecting an accident, the fog node will find the nearest first responders and relay the accident location to them. The cloud server was hosted on Amazon web services rather than on a local network to get a better and realistic understanding of latency and bandwidth utilization when it comes to IoT data. The server was developed on a Linux operating system using python socket programming. In the event of an accident, the fog node transmits the accident location to the cloud server via a TCP connection for storage and analysis. Latency and network utilization were compared of both types of computing to observe the differences.<br><br>

The other collaborator on this project is Vaibhav Sundharam (https://github.com/vaibhavsundharam/Fog-Computing---A-Brief-Analysis-in-the-Implementation-of-Internet-of-Things). <br> <br>

More details can be found in the report. 
